Doc/readme (#777)
nextcloud/neon: README.md

# Neon

<img src="assets/logo.svg" alt="Neon logo" width="200"/>

A framework for building convergent cross-platform Nextcloud clients using Flutter.

## The goals of Neon

The Neon project has three main goals:

> 1. The [Neon framwork](packages/neon/neon/) does the hevy lifting for Nextcloud client developers. Neon already handles the authentication flow and manages resource requests and data caching. This means that developers can share the code and don not need to reinvent the wheel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The [Neon framwork](packages/neon/neon/) does the heavy lifting for Nextcloud client developers. Neon already handles the authentication flow and manages data requests and caching. This means that developers can reuse a lot of the code and do not need to reinvent the wheel.
```

> 2. The [Neon app](packages/app/) is a cross platform Nextcloud client that runs on iOS, Android, MacOS, Windows, Linux and Web. We already support Android and Linux with the other platforms being a work in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The [Neon app](packages/app/) is a cross platform Nextcloud client that runs on iOS, Android, macOS, Windows, Linux and Web. We already support Android and Linux with the other platforms being work in progress.
```

### Current problems with other clients

- There are many clients that are designed to run exclusively on a single platform or device type. They all have different code bases, which makes feature parity and maintenance much more difficult.
- The user experience and features differ significantly from platform to platform, which leads to frustration. This particularly affects mobile devices running Linux (e.g. postmarketOS). There is no suitable client on this platform at all. Using the desktop Linux client for file synchronization would probably work, but it still lacks almost all the features available on e.g. Android and the client is not converging to the needs of a mobile screens.
- Even on feature-rich platforms, features are spread across multiple apps, making it more complicated for the user who simply wants to get the most out of their Nextcloud server on their device.

### How Neon as a framework tries to solve them

The Neon project uses [Dart](https://dart.dev/) and [Flutter](https://flutter.dev/) to help mobile client developers building apps. Flutter allows us to build convergent cross platform clients that feel native. 

> We are a 100% FOSS framework and do not rely on any proprietary libraries making it easy for developers to publish thier apps in places like the [f-droid](https://f-droid.org/) store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are a 100% FOSS framework and do not rely on any proprietary libraries making it easy for developers to publish thier apps in places like the [F-Droid](https://f-droid.org/) store.
```

> We provide a generated [Nextcloud Dart client](packages/nextcloud/) that is generated from the new OpenAPI specifications shipped with [Nextcloud 28](https://nextcloud.com/blog/nextcloud-hub-6-healthy-meeting-culture-and-the-first-local-ai-assistant/) and is already being used by other Flutter projects. Gone are the days of looking at the PHP code and implementing an API client by hand wich can be time consuming is very error prone. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide a generated [Nextcloud Dart client](packages/nextcloud/) that is generated from the new OpenAPI specifications shipped with [Nextcloud 28](https://nextcloud.com/blog/nextcloud-hub-6-healthy-meeting-culture-and-the-first-local-ai-assistant/) and is already being used by other Dart and Flutter projects. Gone are the days of looking at the PHP code and implementing an API client by hand wich can be time consuming and very error prone. 
```

> By providing abstractions, common utilities and pre built UI components (Widgets) that can be re-used Neon can make developing a new Nextcloud client be as easy as adding a few custom UI elements and the necessary state management, everything else is already taken care of for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide abstractions, common utilities and prebuilt UI components (called Widgets in Flutter) that can be re-used. This allows Neon to make developing a new Nextcloud client as easy as adding a few custom UI elements and the necessary state management, while everything else is already taken care of for you.
```

## Contributing

> We encureage every client developer to contribute their app implementation back into Neon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We encourage every client developer to contribute their app implementation back into Neon.
```

This way we app developers can choose from a large set of clients to enable.
Check out our [contributing docs](CONTRIBUTING.md) to get started with developing with Neon.

> We have a lot of [documentation](./docs) form helping you setup your development environment to our guidlines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a lot of [documentation](./docs) from helping you setup your development environment to our guidelines.
```

> Please make sure to read them before starting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please make sure to read them before starting to contribute.
```

## Development and support

We have a Matrix space where you can ask questions: https://matrix.to/#/#nextcloud-neon:matrix.org

## Features

See [here](packages/app/README.md) for screenshots.

> - :heavy_check_mark: Supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :heavy_check_mark: Supported
- :building-construction: Work in progress
```
